# Project: Data Warehouse

## Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## Project Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

## Project Datasets
There are the S3 links for each:

- Song data: `s3://udacity-dend/song_data`
- Log data: `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`

Log data json path: `s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json`

### Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/)
. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned
by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

```json
{
  "num_songs": 1,
  "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7",
  "artist_latitude": null,
  "artist_longitude": null,
  "artist_location": "",
  "artist_name": "Line Renaud",
  "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1",
  "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff",
  "duration": 152.92036,
  "year": 0
}
```

### Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by
this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app
activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths
to two files in this dataset.

``
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
``

**Example**

```json
{
  "artist": "Muse",
  "auth": "Logged In",
  "firstName": "Harper",
  "gender": "M",
  "itemInSession": 1,
  "lastName": "Barrett",
  "length": 209.50159,
  "level": "paid",
  "location": "New York-Newark-Jersey City, NY-NJ-PA",
  "method": "PUT",
  "page": "NextSong",
  "registration": 1540685364796,
  "sessionId": 275,
  "song": "Supermassive Black Hole (Twilight Soundtrack Version)",
  "status": 200,
  "ts": 1541721977796,
  "userAgent": "\"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.3; WOW64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/36.0.1985.143 Safari/537.36\"",
  "userId": "42"
}
```
## Infrastructure

For this project, I'll be using Amazon Web Services (AWS) to store data and run ETL pipelines. You'll be using the following services:
- IAMRole
- Redshift
- S3

Make sure that aws profile in `~/.aws/credentials` is set to `udacity`.

To generate the infrastructure, I'll be using the [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) tool.
```bash
cd infra/
terrafrom apply
```

## Running the application
1. Fill out the `dwh.cfg` file with your AWS credentials. It could be done in 2 ways:
   1. By creating infrastructure yourself and sync secrets to your local machine.
      - Make sure `~/.aws/credentials` is set to `udacity`, otherwise change the variable `AWS_PROFILE` in `sync_secret.py`
      - Run sync_secret.py to sync the AWS secrets to the `dwh.cfg` file. (It will generate automatically if it doesn't exist from the template file)
   2. By filling out manually.

2. Run `python create_tables.py` to create the tables in Redshift.
3. Run `python etl.py` to load data from S3 to Redshift.